Note to Myself about UISplitViewController and Auto-Rotation
Published on March 14, 2011.
In order to prevent my future self from wasting like, 2 hours fucking around with UISplitViewController getting it to auto-rotate its subviews, here’s a little post!
Most of the time, UISplitViewController doesn’t want to rotate because you didn’t set it as the root subview of the Window.
This is pretty well documented on StackOverflow, etc. I thought this was why my splitviewblahblahblah wasn’t rotating.
It turns out that, according to Apple’s documentation,
A split view controller relies on its two view controllers to determine whether interface orientation changes should be made.
If one or both of the view controllers do not support the new orientation, no change is made.
This is true even in portrait mode, where the first view controller is not displayed.
Therefore, you must override the shouldAutorotateToInterfaceOrientation: method for both view controllers and return YES for all supported orientations.
The key here is that the view controller wasn’t autorotating because the subviews did not answer “YES!!!” (exclamation points added by me) to shouldAutoRotateToInterfaceOrientation.
I was fucking around with the Split View Controller in Interface Builder (and later programmatically) to no avail.
Adding the stupid autorotate thing to yes in the subviews made it work (shouldn’t it default to YES!?!??!).
Okay, lesson learned.
Just don’t forget this next time, Hung!